Okay, great.
Thanks, and welcome to session 712.
This is
Advanced Media Application Development.
And we're going to focus on some
more advanced uses of QTKit.
I see there's a lot of people that
weren't here for the first session.
So let me just remind
you that at noontime,
there is a talk by one of the head
programmers at Pixar up in the Presidio
that I think will be very entertaining.
If you haven't heard him speak before,
you absolutely owe it to yourself to go.
And then this afternoon, from 2 onward,
a lot of the QTKit engineers
will be down in the lab,
so you can come by and ask
questions that you want answered.
My name is Tim Monroe,
and I will be joined shortly by
David Underwood for this session.
Actually, the first thing I want to do
is go to the demo machine.
Every year, maybe you know this,
we have what we call a stupid
movie that sort of encapsulates
one of the themes of WWDC.
And I have gotten the honor of
showing that movie to you today.
So could I have the demo machine?
So here for your viewing pleasure
is the 2008 stupid movie.
[Transcript missing]
Some things are scalable.
And some things are not.
Some things scale naturally.
And some things probably
shouldn't be compared at all.
Like, not even a little bit.
Know what I'm sayin'?
Okay, back to slides please.
This talk has nothing
to do with scalability,
but, or maybe it does.
So here I want to put on
my non-reading glasses.
I want to start off by talking about
QTKit and the playback portion of it.
And as you know, in Snow Leopard,
our charter was not to add a bunch of
APIs to give you guys new capabilities,
but it was to go back and focus
on stability and performance
of the existing APIs.
And that was a great charter
because it allowed us to go back in,
look at some of the code that
we maybe thought wasn't as
good as it could have been,
rework it, and add capabilities,
make things faster,
make them more stable for you.
So we've gone in and completely
reworked two classes.
Well, actually a number,
but the ones that you'll be
interested in are QTMovie.
We've rewritten it from scratch
in order to uncouple it from the
QuickTime framework and allow it
to sit on top of other frameworks.
And of course,
the one that you've heard about
is this QuickTime 10 framework,
which gives us added capabilities
that we'll talk about in a little bit.
We've also gone in and done
significant work in making QTMovie
View and QTMovie Layer faster,
more capable, and actually less buggy.
So we'll talk about
some of that here today.
I want to start off talking about
what I call QTMovie Best Practices.
And these are essentially
trying to head off places
where you may run into trouble.
The tech support people or the
mailing list seem to get the same
sorts of questions all the time.
And I want to talk about that.
I want to just touch on a few of them
here today to save you some trouble.
Then I'll focus on these QTMovie
improvements that I just mentioned.
I'll show you some of
the drawing improvements,
that is to say the improvements in
the movie layer and the movie view.
And then David will come up and do
roughly the same thing with what we have
changed in the capture portion of QTKit.
So let's talk about
QTMovie Best Practices.
There are three of these
that I want to talk about.
One having to do with movie loading.
One having to do with accessing APIs in
the QuickTime framework directly.
And then I want to talk about
how you can move QTKit processing
onto a background thread.
So if you were at the
introductory session this morning,
you saw me use the API init with
file in order to open a file on disk
and display it in a QT Movie view.
What I want to suggest to you is
that if you're going to be doing
more advanced work with QTKit,
you want to move to a different API,
namely init with attributes.
The idea is,
here is the declaration for it,
you will pass in a dictionary
of attributes that you want the
movie to have when it is opened.
Now, of course,
one thing you have to do is
specify where the movie is.
So you will pass in either QT Movie file
name attribute or QT Movie URL attribute,
and that will help QT Movie find
the data that it needs to use.
I've listed a few others that are
likely candidates for inclusion.
In the dictionary that you
pass to init with attributes.
Again,
if you were at the earlier session,
you saw that I made an API call
to make the movie editable,
which by default it is not.
You can save yourself the trouble
by putting the editability
attribute into this dictionary,
and that will be set at the
time you open the movie.
You can also set a delegate on the movie,
and that's useful for areas where
the delegate method needs to be
invoked early on in the open.
So you can set the delegate to be
set at the time you open the movie.
And finally,
pretty much any other attribute that
can be set on the movie is fair game
for inclusion in the dictionary that
you pass to init with attributes.
And here I've listed just a couple.
You might, for instance,
want to set the looping state
of a movie so that it loops
continuously during playback.
Or you may want to set the
volume of the movie in order
to get some non-default volume.
So here is a simple example
of a simple looping state.
Use of initWithAttributes.
As you can see,
I'm passing in a URL associated
with the QTMovieURL attribute.
And I'm also setting the movie
to be editable by passing in
the movie editable attribute.
And then I just call
initWithAttributes error,
and I get back a QTMovie.
[Transcript missing]
Well,
this is not something you want to do
in a UI app because your user will sit
there thinking your app has crashed.
But it's perfectly reasonable
to do in a command line app.
Maybe you have a command line
tool that opens movies and
exports them to some other format.
In that case,
it's perfectly okay to sit around
waiting for all the movie data to arrive,
and so you can force
synchronous loading in this way.
For a GUI-based app,
the alternative method is to monitor
what we call the movie load state.
The movie load state is
an attribute of a movie,
and these are the currently defined
values that can be returned when
you ask for a movie load state.
Two of these,
actually three of these to look at.
The first one is the error state.
If you get back an error state,
it means that something bad has happened
during the opening of the movie,
and you should just toss the movie.
There's nothing you can do with it.
The state at the bottom is
the load state complete.
It means we have every little
last bit in that movie available.
We can play it, we can export it,
we can do whatever you
want with that movie.
Now, you don't actually need to wait
until you have all the data
to do certain things with it.
If all you want to do is
know how big the movie is,
what's its dimensions,
what's its duration,
how many tracks does it have,
then you want to look for
the load state loaded.
In technical terms,
that means that something called
the movie atom is available to us,
and that's where a lot of the
data about the movie is stored.
So let's look at how this would work.
So I can open my movie, again,
within it with attributes,
and then I set some object
as an observer for the
QTMovieLoadStateDidChange notification.
That will get issued whenever QTMovie
determines that the load state has gone
from one level to a different level.
And then your observer could
look something like this.
If you get the load state error,
toss the movie.
There's nothing you can do with it.
Once you've gotten to load state loaded,
at that point you can do
the things you want to do.
You can ask for the movie's natural size,
you can create your movie
view to be just that size,
and you could even assign
the movie to the movie view.
Okay, let's talk about direct access
to the QuickTime framework.
As you probably know,
QTKit sits on top of
QuickTime to do all of its work.
There is, QTKit, of course,
has a limited API,
and there are certain things you
can do with the QuickTime framework,
with its thousands and thousands
and thousands of function calls,
that you cannot do with QTKit.
Well, we give you a safety valve,
or a trapdoor,
that lets you get down into
the QuickTime framework.
And here are methods that return
to you the QuickTime identifiers,
or objects.
So, for instance, if you have a QT movie,
you could ask for the QuickTime movie
that that QT movie is representing.
You could also ask for
the movie controller,
which is another component that helps
manage the playback of the movie,
and also draws that little
controller bar underneath the movie.
Or if you're working down at
the track or the media level,
again, you can get the QuickTime track
or QuickTime media associated
with those objects.
So here's an example of when
it might be useful to dip
down into the QuickTime API.
There is currently no QTKit API that
lets you find out where a frame starts.
So you're at some time in the movie,
and you'd like to back up to
the beginning of that frame.
There's no QTKit API that will tell
you the time that that frame starts at.
Well,
we could write it ourselves in this way,
by dipping down into the QuickTime API,
and the operative API here is
called GetMovieNextInterestingTime.
And you can see that the first
parameter to that function call is
the QuickTimeMovie that is returned
by the QuickTimeMovie method there.
So I'm not going to
look into this anymore,
just to let you know that if
there's something QTKit doesn't do,
and you need it for your application,
you can dip down into the QuickTime API.
Now, there are some caveats here.
If you dip down into the QuickTime API,
there's all sorts of fun calls that let
you dispose tracks or dispose movies.
Don't call those.
You will just crash your application.
Okay?
Because QTKit assumes that
those things are still there,
and if you dip down and behind its back
start deleting tracks from the movie,
it'll get hopelessly confused
and eventually crash.
QuickTime methods that return information
to you are virtually always safe to call.
However,
when you go in and start changing
attributes at that lower level,
again, there's a possibility that there
could be inconsistencies between what
QTKit thinks and what QuickTime thinks.
Now, you may not crash at this level,
but strange things may happen.
And one thing to keep in mind
is that this ability to dip
down into the QuickTime API is
not available to 64-bit apps.
The very simple reason for that
is that the QuickTime framework
is not available in 64-bit.
We do a little bit of inter-process
communication from the 64-bit
QTKit to be able to access the
32-bit QuickTime capabilities.
Now,
one thing this should tell you is that if
you need some of the functionality in the
QuickTime framework in your application,
and you want to run 64-bit,
you should tell us about that so
that we can give you equivalent
functionality in QTKit,
which is guaranteed to work in 64-bits.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so those are things you may
run into just to keep in mind.
Let's talk about Qt Movie improvements.
As I've said,
Qt Movie is a pretty thin wrapper
on top of the QuickTime Movie and
Movie Controller concepts.
So QuickTime has some
features and some limitations.
One of the nice features of
QuickTime is that when you open a movie,
you can not just play it back,
but you can also edit it.
So it always sets things up
for editing and playback.
It is not,
as I mentioned just a few minutes ago,
64-bit capable.
And, as we just saw,
there's some stuff you need
to do to make it thread-safe.
And QTKit, of course,
being built on top of QuickTime,
inherits these features.
Since there is no QuickTime in 64-bit,
as I said,
we do IPC in order to get things
to actually work correctly.
You must initialize a
QT movie on the main thread.
And then if you want to operate
on it on another thread,
you need to do the work
that we just showed.
So here's sort of the way you might look
at how QTKit was originally structured.
QTKit sits on top of QuickTime,
and the parts of QuickTime that
it sits most heavily on are
called the Movie Toolbox and
Movie Controller Components.
Now, the movie toolbox itself will
talk to other components,
and just a couple of
them are media handlers.
So if you have a video
track in your file,
you'll get a video media handler.
If you have some sound in your file,
you'll have a sound media handler.
And they will talk to yet
other software components,
here the sound manager and
the image compression manager,
in order to get the sound through your
speakers or the bits up on the screen.
Now,
the nice thing about this architecture
is that we can swap parts of it out
or add in new parts fairly easily.
And one thing that happened quite
a while ago was that we lessened
our dependence on the sound manager
and added support for core audio,
a much more powerful
sound processing API.
And we did a similar thing with
the image compression manager.
We made a path where you could go through
core video to give you better performance
and better fidelity for your video.
We can do the same thing for the
Movie Toolbox and the Movie Controller,
and that's what QuickTime 10 is.
It's a new set of components
that doesn't rely on any existing
QuickTime functionality that will play
your graphics and your sound through
those other software components.
So it's a new media pipeline
that you can opt into for
playback of your media files.
It's more efficient than
the original pipeline,
as we'll see in just a minute.
And, nicely, it is 64-bit capable.
We don't need to do the IPC stuff
that ties our hands in certain ways.
And finally, it is much,
much more thread-safe than QuickTime is.
How do you opt into
the new media pipeline?
How do you get that
QuickTime 10 goodness?
It's very simple.
In the initWithAttributes call,
you add in one more attribute,
which is the
QTMovieOpenForPlayback attribute.
When you pass that in with the value yes,
you're essentially telling QTKit,
I'm only ever going to
play back this movie.
I'm not going to edit it,
I'm not going to export it,
I'm just going to play it back.
So here's how the call would look.
It's just the same code we had before,
but with the addition
of a new key value pair,
namely the open for playback attribute,
and in this case it's set to yes.
So this tells QTKit that you're
willing to let it take a new code path.
So let's take a demo of that,
if I could go to the demo machine.
So here's an application
that I've got pre-built.
And I'm going to open a movie.
And now you can see down here that
I am listing the current media stack.
In this case, if I start it playing,
it's going to use QuickTime 7.
And I'll just use this
button to start it playing.
And we have the movie playing back using
the code path that it's always used.
Now here's a fun thing.
I've got a button here that
says change media stack.
I can change it on the fly.
And now I'm using QuickTime 10.
It looks the same, it sounds the same,
but what's the performance like?
Well, let's go back to QuickTime 7.
Can we mute the audio there?
Let's launch... Oh,
somebody took it away.
Good old Activity Viewer, I suppose.
Activity Monitor, oh, there it is.
All right, so this is gonna,
we're gonna look at the
QTKit server and QTKit player.
This is a 64-bit application.
And to get the appropriate CPU load,
we need to add together the
QTKit server and the QTKit player.
And what are we looking about there?
Adding them together is
about 25% of the CPU,
roughly.
Now let's go over here and
change it to QuickTime 10.
All the CPU load for the QuickTime,
for the QTKit server, goes to zero.
And what are we left with?
Five percent.
Whoa.
So what was it before?
25 percent?
Five percent.
Which path would you rather take?
So by adding in one
attribute to our dictionary,
can I go back to slides?
We were able to significantly reduce
the CPU usage of our application.
So, one of the things we have
added for Snow Leopard,
the new media pipeline
that you get access to by
specifying that new attribute.
Now, when you go that path,
certain methods in
QT Movie will not work.
Anything that exports it,
so the right to file with attributes,
will not work.
Anything that attempts to
edit the file will not work,
because you've told us that you
don't want to do those things.
No editing, no export.
And, more importantly,
because we're no longer
built on QuickTime,
you cannot access those
QuickTime primitives.
You can't use those API calls
in the QuickTime framework,
because there isn't any
QuickTime framework for
that particular file.
Now, one more thing to keep in mind
is that not all files that are
playable by QuickTime are playable
by the new media pipeline.
And when I say QuickTime there,
I mean QuickTime 7, of course.
The ones that can be played
back are really those that can
be played back on our devices,
such as iPods and iPhones.
And if we decide that the movie
cannot be played by QuickTime 10,
we will fall back to the
existing media pipeline.
Without telling you, but it'll play back.
We may need to add in an API that
lets you figure out which
code path the movie is taking,
but we have not exposed that
in the seed that you have.
So let me talk a little bit about
improvements in the drawing subsystem.
And for that,
I just want to go straight to demos.
If I could have the demo machine.
I want to show you two demos.
In fact,
you've seen one of these already in the
graphics and media State of the Union.
And I'm going to launch it.
House of Mirrors here.
It's a very simple...
But at the same time, very cool demo.
Scalability, a review.
Again, could I mute the audio on that?
So here we have a QuickTime movie,
our stupid movie,
played into a QT movie layer.
And we've,
actually it's two layers because
the one layer is on top and the
other layer is the reflection there.
Now, this is the exact same
QT Movie instance being attached
to two different movie layers.
That was not possible
before Snow Leopard.
You could try it, but it wouldn't work.
You could not get this nice reflection.
In Snow Leopard,
we've improved the movie layer stuff
so that you can do this sort of thing.
And of course, as you saw in the demo,
we could add lots of layers.
One QT Movie, lots of layers.
OK?
And I want to show you one more demo.
We have not only added that
capability with the movie layer,
but...
[Transcript missing]
So again,
we didn't add any new API for that.
We just added capability to QTKit.
Yeah, I know there's bifocals.
Okay, so what can we do?
We can take the same QT movie and
attach it to two different movie layers.
attach it to two different movie views.
We recommend doing the movie
view thing only if you're taking
the QuickTime 10 code path.
Otherwise,
the movie controllers attached to the
two views start arguing with each other,
and it's not a pretty sight.
So that's all I want to talk about,
and now I'd like to bring
David Underwood up to talk about some
of these new and improved features
we have in the capture part of QTKit.
Thank you, Tim.
So if you were here at the
previous session or if you're
familiar with QTKit Capture,
you know that it's primarily
focused on kind of what we perceived
as pretty common use cases.
So for example,
a lot of applications are going
to want to capture real-time media
and record it to a QuickTime movie,
for example.
But what we also did in the
API was we left some openings,
some way of really controlling what
you're doing with your capture sessions,
and also ways of getting at
the data that's being captured.
So you can do custom things with
it that we didn't anticipate.
So for the remainder of this session,
I'm going to go over a few of
those things and some detailed ways
that you can control and get the
most out of your capture sessions.
I'm also going to show you some
new APIs that we've introduced
to make that even better.
So what we'll go over.
First thing I'm going to do is show
you the small handful of new capture
APIs we've added in Snow Leopard.
Then I'm going to go into detail
about the QT Capture Connection class.
And this class kind of plays
an interesting role in the API,
because it's a class that
is behind everything,
and you see it in a lot of the APIs,
but you rarely have to
interact with it directly.
But it's actually very powerful,
and I'll show you a few tricks and
a few things you can get out of it.
I'm also going to go a little bit
over the importance of observing
real-time changes in your
capture session as it's running.
One of the key complexities with capture
is that because it's a real-time system
and things can change at any time,
an application ideally should anticipate
those changes and deal with them.
And that'll be a bit of a theme that
you'll see in a lot of these examples.
So, first, for new APIs in Snow Leopard,
the biggest new API that we've added
is the QTCapture Audio Data Output.
And this class is a QTCapture
Output subclass that allows your
application to get directly at
the raw audio samples that are
going through the capture session.
So, this is pretty much analogous,
if you're familiar with it,
to the QTCapture
Decompressed Video Output,
which is that it's basically a pipe,
an outlet,
that lets you get at those samples,
do some custom processing on it,
you know,
anything that we didn't think of
that your application needs to do.
Some of the key features of
QT Capture Audio Data Output.
The format of the audio that
it gives you is the canonical
Core Audio linear PCM format.
So this is the format that's
compatible with almost all
audio units in Core Audio.
So it's designed to be specifically
compatible with audio units
and make it easy to do your
extra processing in Core Audio,
which is going to be
the most likely case.
We package the audio data in
a QT sample buffer object,
which is an object we already
had defined in the API.
And what this object does for you is
it contains both the actual data itself
and also metadata about that data.
For example,
it tells you the format that it's in.
That's very important.
And it also gives you timing information.
So everything in a live
capture session is time-stamped
relative to a certain time base.
So you can use that for synchronization
and other services to figure
out the timing of the data.
So if you're familiar with this API and
you've been to these sessions before,
you've probably seen a diagram like this,
where we have our QTCapture
session in the middle,
and then we have our QTCapture
inputs and our QTCapture outputs.
And in the past,
I've plugged QTCapture decompressed
video output as the way to
serve open-ended use cases.
So all this class does is it gives you
CV image buffers of your video frames
as it gets them as quickly as possible,
and then you do what you want with them.
QTCapture audio data output
is basically the same thing,
but for audio.
And the big difference is your input
will be from some kind of audio source,
and your output format will be
these QT sample buffer objects
instead of CV image buffers.
So just to quickly go over
how you would use this class,
it's very similar to the other
QTKit capture output classes.
First, you will create your
QTCapture audio data output,
just using the standard initializers,
and you'll set a delegate on it.
And common to the
pattern in other classes,
this delegate's going to get
called every time a sample
buffer full of audio is received.
And just a note on that,
a single sample buffer can contain many,
many samples of audio,
as is natural for audio.
So it can contain, you know,
maybe 512 samples of audio
that you can use to queue up.
And then finally,
once you've created that,
you'll take that output and you'll
add it to your capture session,
just like you would
with any other output.
So, simple.
The delegate will implement one method.
There's one method defined,
which is this capture output
did output audio sample
buffer from connection method.
And most likely what you're going
to do with this sample buffer
that you're given is do some
processing on it with core audio.
And so QT sample buffer
provides a few conveniences
that make that relatively easy.
One is that you can get a handle
on an audio buffer list object,
which is the common object
that's used with core audio
audio units and AU graphs.
And you also need to find
out how many frames of audio
are in that single sample.
And you do that by calling the
QT sample buffer number samples method.
And then once you have that information,
you do whatever you need to do with it.
So just to show you a
concrete example of this,
I'm going to show you a
quick demo application.
So if we could go to the demo machine,
please.
And this application is called
Audio Data Output to Audio Unit.
And if you go to the WWDC attendee
page for this session,
you can download this application
and play with it yourself.
I'm just going to close this off.
And what this application does for
you is it's a simple example of
how to take the audio buffers that
you're getting from QTKit Capture
and use them with the core audio API,
which is going to be probably the
most common case of using this class.
And it deals with a few of kind
of the impedance-- a little bit
of the impedance matching that
you need to do between those APIs.
So I'll just show that
to you pretty quickly.
And all this application is going
to do is it's going to get those
audio buffers from a capture session.
Then it's going to use an audio unit
to apply an effect to those buffers.
And then it's going to use
the core audio x-ed audio file
API to write that to disk.
So we're going to record an audio
capture session with an effect.
So this is a very simple application.
It's a single-windowed application,
so we just have one controller.
I'm just gonna open that up.
And I'll jump through this a little bit.
Don't need to build it
from scratch because,
again, this is kind of the common theme.
A lot of the things you need to do here
are similar to what you've done before.
So, for example,
we need to find an audio device.
So we use the default input device with
media type and pass an audio media type.
And we have to open it,
make sure it opens successfully.
Then we create our capture session
and create our device input
and add that to the session.
Pretty simple.
And then the new thing here is we
create our audio data output and set a
delegate on it to get those callbacks
whenever a new audio buffer comes in and
add that as an output to the session.
And really,
I don't know if you can see it here,
this is basically all of the
QTKit capture code in this application.
Really, in this case,
we're supporting these
open-ended use cases.
Really, the meat of the work is going
to be done by everything else.
So by core audio and the other
things your application does.
And really, in this case,
we're just going to do that.
We're just using QTKit capture as
a source for data and nothing else.
So the amount that you do with
QTKit capture is pretty small,
actually.
And also in the setup area,
we're going to create
our effects audio unit.
In this case, we'll do a delay effect.
It's pretty easy to hear.
And we'll go and open that up.
And here's where it gets
a little bit interesting.
So if you're familiar with Core Audio,
and if you're not,
there are some sessions at this
conference that you should go to,
or at least review.
Core Audio, both the Audio Unit API and
the AU Graph API,
employ what's called a
pull model for getting data
through these different units.
And what that means is when you
have a chain of audio units,
or even just one audio unit,
it's told to render periodically,
or it's pulled on.
And when it's told to render,
the thing that's telling it to render
is getting the output from that.
And what that means is that whenever
the audio unit needs new data,
it asks for it.
It issues a callback that was set on it.
And this is called a render callback.
So in other words,
instead of data being pushed into it,
it issues this callback
whenever it needs more data.
But Qt Get Capture kind of has
a very different set of goals.
The audio data output is trying
to give you these audio sample
buffers as quickly as it can.
So it's pushing them on you effectively.
So we have a push model and a pull model.
And you need to reconcile those.
And that actually turns out
to be relatively simple.
And the way we're going to do
that is by setting this render
callback on the audio unit.
And this is the callback that's
going to be called when the
audio unit needs new data.
data.
So that's what we do here.
So I'm just gonna skip
down here a little bit.
Here is the delegate method
that gets called by QT Capture
Audio Data Output for every sample.
And I'll skip over all
of this for a minute.
I'll come back to it.
And the main thing we try to do here
is we need two pieces of information,
which I showed you in the slide.
We need to find out how many frames of
audio are in the specific sample buffer,
so we get that here.
And then we also need
an audio buffer list,
which we get here.
What we're gonna do with that audio
buffer list is we're gonna assign it to,
whoops,
We're going to assign it to an
instance variable in our class.
So we're just going to store it away.
And what we'll do immediately is
we'll tell our audio unit to render.
And this is the call that
pulls on the audio unit.
It pulls on the output.
And what this will cause it to do is
cause it to call its render callback,
which we have down here.
And all that the render callback does
is it takes this sample buffer that we
just stored in our instance variable
right here and just fills it in.
It just fills in the pointers.
It doesn't even need to copy any data.
And this all happens synchronously.
So when Audio Unit Render is called,
the render callback is
called synchronously.
So we don't have to worry
about the data going away.
We don't have to retain it or hold
on to it or anything because...
Once this audio unit render call returns,
we'll be sure to have copied
all that data in there.
So that's how you reconcile those push
and pull models in a very simple way.
Just you need to do a little
extra storage and then move
over with that render callback.
So once we have the output
audio from our audio unit,
we use the X audio file API,
which is the high-level file
writing API in Core Audio,
and write that out to disk.
And we do that asynchronously
because we can.
And it's that simple.
So that doesn't sound so bad.
You notice I skipped
over a ton of code here,
though.
And this code is very critical, actually.
So as I alluded to earlier, the format,
or many things about a capture session,
can change over time.
So for example,
just in the internal line in on the Mac,
the user can go and open Audio MIDI Setup
and at any time change the sample
rate of the audio that it's giving.
So if you're recording
from that device live,
the user can change
that format at any time,
and your application needs
to be able to deal with that.
And the way that we deal with that is
for every single QT sample buffer that
comes in from the audio data output,
we're going to get its
format description.
And this is an object of
type QT format description.
And what we're going to get
out of it is some information.
So we're going to get the
Core Audio AudioStream basic description.
And we have a copy of the old
AudioStream basic description
that we were using previously.
And basically we're just going to check,
did something about the AudioStream
basic description change?
That means the format
of the audio changed,
so we're going to have to
reconfigure all of our audio units.
And we're going to have to
reconfigure the X audio file.
And the things that are liable to change
are the number of channels in the audio.
So it can go from stereo to mono,
for example.
And the sample rate.
So if that's the case,
we need to do some teardown.
So we uninitialize our audio unit,
and then we reset it up again.
So we need to set up our stream format.
So we set that audio stream
basic description on it.
And we also set up the
X audio file down here.
So we update its output format to
match the number of channels in
the sample rate that we're writing.
It's very important that
your application does this.
It always needs to be able to anticipate
these changes and reconfigure whatever
processing is being done as necessary.
And that pretty much wraps it up.
So if we build and run this thing.
And you see we have a pretty
minimalist user interface here,
and I'm just going to
do a quick recording.
Hello.
Okay.
I think that's enough.
And let's just open that up.
Hello.
Okay.
That's going to get out of hand.
And so that's a simple application.
Again, using QTKit Capture just
as a source for data,
but really doing all the hard work
in a different API or something
that's specific to your application.
So can we go back to the slides, please?
So in Snow Leopard, we've also added a
handful of other new APIs.
And keeping with the general
goals of Snow Leopard,
they're all, for the most part,
performance related.
So for example, QTKit capture the
decompressed video output,
we've added a few APIs.
First, we've added an API that enables
automatic frame dropping.
A common problem that a lot of developers
had with decompressed video output
was if they were doing some kind of
processing on their video frames and
it was taking longer than the rate
at which the frames were coming in,
then they didn't do anything
to drop those frames.
The memory usage of the application
would just get out of hand 'cause
the frames would just kind of pile
up further and further on a queue,
and your memory usage would grow and
grow until your application crashes.
So what we've told developers to do
in the past is shuttle all of that
work off onto another thread and
handle dropping frames yourself,
basically.
So if you see that you're getting behind,
just throw out the
frames as they come in.
But we realized there are some
applications where they don't
really need that much control over
their frame dropping behavior.
They just wanna kind of salvage their
performance if they're running behind.
So we've added a new API that
lets Qt Capture decompress video
output do that work for you,
so you don't have to worry
about shuttling your work
to a different thread.
In a similar vein to that,
we've also added an API that
lets you specify the rate of
the video frames that you get,
with a set minimum video
frame interval API.
And this is an opportunity,
if your application doesn't
need frames that often,
this is an opportunity for the
entire pipeline to be optimized,
so you don't use as much bus bandwidth,
you don't use as much memory,
and it's just a performance
hint for the API,
basically.
QT Capture File Output has
gained similar types of APIs.
It also has a way of
specifying the frame rate.
We've also added an API for
specifying the maximum size of the
video that you're writing to disk.
So, as you might know,
a lot of the computers that we've
shipped relatively recently have
these giant HD iSights on them,
built in, that produce these huge frames,
and they're around 1280 by 1024.
And some applications might
actually want that resolution,
but often they don't want to, you know,
hitting the disk with frames
that big repeatedly is actually
too much for most hard disks.
So now you can control what's happening.
QT Capture File Output has also gained
a... A pause and resume recording API,
so you can pause in the middle
of a file and record it.
You don't... Yeah,
you no longer have to do weird
things like change files and
then stitch them together.
We do that for you.
One note is that the minimum
frame interval API in both classes
is not currently implemented
in the seed you have today,
but you will see that in the future.
So now I'm going to move away from
new APIs a bit and talk about some
of the general things that you can
do with QTKit Capture that really
enable you to fine-tune what's going
on in your capture session and also
kind of understand what's going on.
And one of the classes that's central
to this is QTCaptureConnection.
So I'm sure by now you've seen
a lot of diagrams like this.
We have, again,
our capture session in the middle,
and we have our inputs going
into the capture session and our
outputs taking the data coming
out of the capture session.
What you haven't seen in most of
these diagrams is there are actually
these streams of data coming from the
inputs into the session and coming
from the session into the outputs,
represented by these
lines and arrows here.
And in QTKit Capture,
these are actually represented by
a class called QTCaptureConnection.
QT Capture Connection serves
three fundamental purposes.
First,
it allows your application to identify
one of these specific streams,
one of those lines or
arrows in the diagram,
and this can either be an identifier
that's given to you or something
that you give to part of the API.
It also allows the application to
actually control which of these streams
of media are enabled at any given time.
So if an application doesn't
need to take all of the data
coming from a certain thing,
you can disable it using
QT Capture Connection.
Finally, because QT Capture Connection is
sitting on top of the stream of data,
it can give applications lots of
up-to-date information about what's going
on with that stream at a given time,
such as its format or other useful
information about the data stream.
So I'm going to go into some additional
detail about how you can use QT Capture
Connection to identify a specific stream.
So if you've gone through the headers,
you're familiar with the API,
you've probably seen a lot of
QTKit capture APIs that either
give you a QT capture connection
or take one as a parameter.
And when they're doing this,
they are effectively using
this connection to identify
one of these specific streams.
So we just have a good example down here.
We have a QT capture connection
outputting to a movie file output.
And if your application does this,
you can implement a delegate method
called capture output did output
sample buffer from connection.
And this method is called
every time a new sample buffer
enters the movie file output.
So you can use it to precisely
control what's going on.
And say you're implementing this,
and you really want to know, you know,
I have audio and video going
into this movie file output.
Where did the sample buffer come from?
Did it come from the audio
connection or the video connection?
And the way you do that is you
look at the QT capture connection
parameter in that method.
That's why it exists as a parameter
so you can identify the stream.
Another really common example is,
and if you were at the last session,
you saw a little preview of this,
is if you want to set compression
options on the movie file output,
you need to specify which stream of
media is going to get compressed,
because the movie file output might
be writing out multiple streams.
And you use
QTCaptureConnection to do that.
So in this case,
say we want to compress the video
coming out of our capture session,
we find a QTCaptureConnection
object and say,
use these compression options
for this video stream.
So when you do that,
when you need to pass a QTCapture
connection to a specific API,
you need to get that QTCapture
connection from somewhere.
And the way that you do that is both
QTCaptureInput and QTCaptureOutput
define an API called connections.
And this method just returns an
NSArray of the QTCapture connections
that are currently associated
with that input or that output.
So we have a few examples of this here.
So for example,
if you wanted to get all the
connections coming from a device input
going into the QT Capture session,
you'd just call the connections method.
And similarly,
if you wanted to get all the connections
coming from the session into,
say, your movie file output, again,
you just call the connections method.
And the time to call these
methods is generally after you've
built your capture session up.
So you have your session,
you've added all of
your inputs and outputs,
because that's the time at which
these connections will have been
created and will be defined,
and they're created implicitly.
So once you've gotten
your array of connections,
generally you want to find a
specific connection in that array,
so you want to narrow it down further.
And the way that you do
that is straightforward.
You just iterate through the array
and use some criteria to decide,
is this the connection
that I'm interested in?
So here's an example, again,
of setting compression options
on a movie file output.
And this is an example of what
was being done in the last session
and in many recording applications
when you want to record to a movie
file and compress it somehow.
So in this case,
we have some video compression
options that we've created.
And what we're going to do is we're
just going to iterate through the
array of QT Capture connections
owned by the movie file output.
And whenever the connection
is of the type video,
we say, oh, okay,
it's a video connection,
so we want to compress the video,
so we're going to apply those
compression options for that connection.
In addition to acting as an identifier,
QT Capture Connection also,
as a representative of
this stream of media,
has a way of controlling whether or
not any media is going through it,
and also specifics about
the media going through it.
So one of the most common cases about it,
and it's a question that's come
up a lot on the mailing list,
and we actually have a
tech note about it now,
is say you're recording
from a DV or an HDV camera.
The interesting thing about these
cameras is these give you a muxed media
stream or a multiplexed media stream,
which can contain both
audio and video data.
So when you create a QT Capture device
input around one of these devices,
it's going to expose two
QT Capture connections,
both a video connection
and an audio connection.
So say you have a simple scenario
like this where you just want to
preview it and record it to a file,
but you're not actually
interested in recording the audio.
Maybe it's a security camera
application and there's no interesting
things to record about the audio.
It just wastes disk space.
You just want to use
this as a video source.
So what you do there is you would
disable the audio connection coming
out of the QT Capture device input.
That's why we have
that big red X over it.
And what will happen is when
you disable a connection,
any connections that are downstream of
that just simply won't get any data.
So you've effectively prevented
the audio data from making it to
the movie file output right here.
And so this is a way of kind of
narrowing down and specifying
exactly what you want.
And the way that you do this is
QT Capture Connection defines
an API called SetEnabled.
And so in this particular example,
we're showing in code what
I did on that slide before,
which is we're going through
all the QT Capture Connections
owned by the device input.
And since we don't care about audio,
if the connection happens to
be of the sound media type,
we just say disable it.
SetEnabled now.
Finally,
QT Capture Connection also is a provider
of information to your application.
So it will allow you to get a snapshot
of what's going on with that specific
stream of media at that given time.
And the easiest way to show you
in what ways it does this is just
through a handful of examples.
So, for example,
if you want to display in your
user interface what the format
of the captured media is,
so you have a device input set
up and you want to show the user,
you know, here's the format that's
coming off this device.
Well,
one way of doing that is you can get
the QT Capture Connection's format
description from that device input,
and then QT format description
has a convenience method called
localized format summary,
which will give you a nice
human-readable string.
And in this example,
we just stick it into a text file,
or to a text field, sorry.
So that's one example.
Another pretty common example for
applications is any application
that records audio most likely
wants to display a little level
meter so that the user knows if
they're clipping out the audio,
if they're speaking too
loudly or too quietly,
or whatever they're recording,
they'll have an idea
of its decibel level.
And QTCaptureConnection, again,
exposes this,
exposes as an attribute because it's
an optional property of the connection,
and it's called the
QTCaptureConnectionAudioAveragePowerLevel
s attribute.
And what this lets you do is it lets
you obtain the power level in decibels
of the audio that you're looking at.
So in this case,
we'll maybe have an NS level
indicator that shows the audio level.
And because it's in decibels,
we wanna convert that to
some kind of linear scale.
So we take it as a power of 10,
and that'll give you a nice,
smooth audio level meter that
you can query and update.
So in light of this,
I've told you that QT Capture
Connection is a way of inspecting
the current state of a stream.
But I've already kind of repeatedly
said that these are things that
can change often over time,
and your application
should deal with that.
So even in the very simplest case,
even if you trust your user
implicitly and they know they're
not going to try and undermine
everything your application is doing,
they're not going to go and unplug and
plug in the device over and over again,
they're not going to go and screw
around with audio MIDI setup.
Even if you know that they're not
going to do that kind of thing.
Even then, when you've initially set
up your capture session,
and you've added your inputs
and your outputs to it,
the QT Capture Connection,
no data has gone through it yet.
You haven't started the session.
So it has no idea what the format of
that data is or any properties of it,
such as the audio levels.
And so when you start your session,
a little bit later,
once that data starts coming through,
it'll know.
And so if your application
is relying on that data,
it needs to know when
that information came in.
And then, of course,
once you've done that work, well,
now you're also accounting for the
case where the user is trying to
destroy everything and is unplugging
and plugging in devices all the
time and doing other such things.
There are two ways of doing this,
basically,
and they're both common Cocoa patterns.
One way of doing it is
to use notifications,
and QT Capture Connection defines
a number of notifications.
But one of them is the format
description did change notification,
and that will tell you whenever
the format going through
the connection was altered.
And so one example of this that
you can think of is DV cameras.
Many consumer DV cameras have a
toggle mode on them that switches
between widescreen and standard.
And this is something the user can
fiddle around with at any time,
you know, so to switch the aspect
ratio of the video.
And that's a format change.
It's a different video format, then.
In addition,
if a DV camera is a tape camera,
the format of what's recorded
on that tape can change.
So even if the user is not, you know,
fiddling with the switch,
if you're recording off of tape,
that format can change at any time.
And so responding to this,
this notification will be posted
whenever the format of the data going
through that connection is altered.
As an alternative,
if this is what you want to
do with your application,
you can use key value observing.
And again,
it's just a standard Cocoa pattern.
You add an observer directly to
the QT capture connection for
the format description key path.
So it's roughly equivalent.
So this is useful for
QT capture connection,
but in fact, this paradigm applies to any
QTKit capture object that is
liable to change at any given time.
And the reason for that is, again,
QTKit Capture is dealing with a
lot of live things like devices.
So one thing that you
might not have known,
it's not called out very explicitly,
is that anywhere where you
see an API that uses attribute
for key in QTKit Capture,
the keys that you pass to that,
they can be used with both key value
coding and key value observing as
a way of observing those changes.
And I'll show you some
examples of that in a second.
So a very common example of
that is QTCapture device.
So the FireWire EyeSight that
we've shipped in the past,
probably can't see it too well,
has this little privacy iris on it.
So you rotate this little thing,
and it covers up the video camera.
And this actually goes and talks
back to the computer through
hardware and says this is closed,
so that applications can
display in their user interface.
They can say, you've closed the iris.
That's why you're not
capturing any video.
And the way we expose this in
QTKit Capture is through an attribute
on QTCaptureDevice called the
QTCaptureDeviceSuspendedAttribute.
And this is something that
can change live at any time,
regardless of whether the device is
associated with a capture session.
And this is something that you
want to observe changes on.
You don't want to pull,
and you don't want to do
anything silly like that.
So one way of doing that is to, again,
use notifications.
And QTCaptureDevice exposes a
QTCaptureDeviceAttributeDidChange
notification to do that.
And then you can query the user
info of the notification to
find out exactly what changed.
As an alternative,
you can use key value observing and
observe the capture device directly.
And in this case,
what you do is you can use the attribute
key directly as the key path on that
object for that key value observing.
So for any attribute that you
see in a QTKit capture API,
again, that attribute key is key
value observing compliant.
So just to sum things up a little bit,
even though out of the box QT Capture
sessions and the inputs and outputs that
you add to them often give you kind of
the useful behavior that you wanted,
they can be tweaked to do custom things.
And in addition,
we provide certain QT Capture inputs
or certain QT Capture outputs that
let you do custom processing that
wasn't anticipated by the API.
And these outputs in particular
are the audio data output and
the decompressed video output.
That's where you get your raw
data to do some custom processing.
You can also have fine-grained
control in a QT Capture session
by using QT Capture Connection.
And you can either use that
to inspect and identify media
streams or use it to actually
turn certain streams of media off.
So, if you have any additional
questions or problems,
come see us in the lab.
That's going to be, I believe, at 2.
Yeah,
it's going to be at 2 this afternoon.
So, come in with your questions.
We'll help you out
with anything you have.
And, you know, if you just want to chat,
we'll be there, too.
And again, for more information,
ping Alan Schaefer.
He will direct you to someone
who can answer your question,
and probably will answer a
lot of your questions anyway.
And check out all of our
documentation and sample code,
both at our developer page and also at
the attendee pages for this session,
actually.
They're not up there,
but you should be able to find it
through the WWDC attendee site.